README.md, before:

# Gemini Claude Toolkit

The `@kryonas/gemini-claude-toolkit` is a powerful command-line interface that streamlines the setup of a sophisticated, AI-driven development workflow between Gemini and Claude. It provides two main commands:

-   `@kryonas/gemini-claude-init`: Initializes your project with the Gemini-Claude Collaboration Protocol by creating a `gemini.md` file in your current directory.
-   `@kryonas/gemini-claude-server`: Runs an MCP server that allows Gemini to delegate coding tasks to Claude.

## Prerequisites

- **Node.js**: [Download and install Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (which includes `npx`).
- **Claude Code CLI**: The official command-line tool for interacting with Claude Code.
  ```bash
  npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code
  ```
- **Anthropic API Key**: You'll need an API key from Anthropic.
  1. Go to the [Anthropic Console](https://console.anthropic.com/).
  2. Create a new API key.

## Installation

You can use this toolkit directly with `npx` without needing to install it globally.

## Usage

This toolkit provides two commands that work together to establish the Gemini-Claude collaborative workflow.

### Step 1: Initialize Your Project

To begin, run the `@kryonas/gemini-claude-init` command in the root directory of your project:

```bash
npx @kryonas/gemini-claude-toolkit gemini-claude-init
```

This will create a `gemini.md` file in your project. This file contains the instructions that guide Gemini to act as a project architect, collaborating with Claude as the coding implementer.

### Step 2: Configure and Run the MCP Server

Once your project is initialized, you need to configure your Gemini CLI to use the MCP server provided by this toolkit.

1.  **Set Your API Key**: Make your Anthropic API key available as an environment variable.

    ```bash
    export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY="your-anthropic-api-key"
    ```

    To make this permanent, add this line to your shell's configuration file (e.g., `~/.zshrc`, `~/.bashrc`).

2.  **Configure Gemini CLI**: Add the `@kryonas/gemini-claude-server` to your Gemini CLI's `settings.json` file. This file is usually located at `~/.gemini/settings.json`.

    ```json
    {
      "mcpServers": [
        {
          "name": "gemini-claude-server",
          "spec": {
            "type": "stdio",
            "command": ["npx", "@kryonas/gemini-claude-toolkit", "gemini-claude-server"]
          }
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

### Step 3: Start Collaborating

With your project initialized and the Gemini CLI configured, you are ready to start using the collaborative workflow. When you interact with the Gemini CLI in your project's directory, it will now follow the protocol defined in your `gemini.md` file, delegating coding tasks to Claude via the MCP server.

Commit message:

Enhance README with detailed architecture and workflow explanation for the Gemini Claude Toolkit, outlining the roles of Gemini CLI, MCP Server, and Claude Code in the collaborative development process.

README.md, after:

# Gemini Claude Toolkit

The `@kryonas/gemini-claude-toolkit` is a powerful command-line interface that streamlines the setup of a sophisticated, AI-driven development workflow between Gemini and Claude. It provides two main commands:

-   `@kryonas/gemini-claude-init`: Initializes your project with the Gemini-Claude Collaboration Protocol by creating a `gemini.md` file in your current directory.
-   `@kryonas/gemini-claude-server`: Runs an MCP server that allows Gemini to delegate coding tasks to Claude.

## Prerequisites

- **Node.js**: [Download and install Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (which includes `npx`).
- **Claude Code CLI**: The official command-line tool for interacting with Claude Code.
  ```bash
  npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code
  ```
- **Anthropic API Key**: You'll need an API key from Anthropic.
  1. Go to the [Anthropic Console](https://console.anthropic.com/).
  2. Create a new API key.

## Installation

You can use this toolkit directly with `npx` without needing to install it globally.

## Usage

This toolkit provides two commands that work together to establish the Gemini-Claude collaborative workflow.

### Step 1: Initialize Your Project

To begin, run the `@kryonas/gemini-claude-init` command in the root directory of your project:

```bash
npx @kryonas/gemini-claude-toolkit gemini-claude-init
```

This will create a `gemini.md` file in your project. This file contains the instructions that guide Gemini to act as a project architect, collaborating with Claude as the coding implementer.

### Step 2: Configure and Run the MCP Server

Once your project is initialized, you need to configure your Gemini CLI to use the MCP server provided by this toolkit.

1.  **Set Your API Key**: Make your Anthropic API key available as an environment variable.

    ```bash
    export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY="your-anthropic-api-key"
    ```

    To make this permanent, add this line to your shell's configuration file (e.g., `~/.zshrc`, `~/.bashrc`).

2.  **Configure Gemini CLI**: Add the `@kryonas/gemini-claude-server` to your Gemini CLI's `settings.json` file. This file is usually located at `~/.gemini/settings.json`.

    ```json
    {
      "mcpServers": [
        {
          "name": "gemini-claude-server",
          "spec": {
            "type": "stdio",
            "command": ["npx", "@kryonas/gemini-claude-toolkit", "gemini-claude-server"]
          }
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

### Step 3: Start Collaborating

With your project initialized and the Gemini CLI configured, you are ready to start using the collaborative workflow. When you interact with the Gemini CLI in your project's directory, it will now follow the protocol defined in your `gemini.md` file, delegating coding tasks to Claude via the MCP server.

## Architecture and Workflow

The Gemini Claude Toolkit is designed to facilitate a powerful, collaborative development workflow where Gemini acts as the high-level architect and Claude serves as the dedicated coding assistant. This separation of concerns allows you to focus on the overall structure and design of your project while leveraging Claude's powerful code generation capabilities.

Here's how the different components interact:

1.  **Gemini CLI**: When you issue a command to the Gemini CLI, it first consults the `gemini.md` file in your project's root directory. This file contains a set of instructions, or a "meta-prompt," that directs Gemini to adopt the persona of a project architect. Instead of executing the coding task itself, Gemini's role is to formulate a clear, high-level plan for the task.

2.  **MCP Server**: The `gemini-claude-server` is a local server that implements the Model-to-Model Collaboration Protocol (MCP). When Gemini has formulated a coding plan, it delegates the implementation of that plan to the MCP server. The server acts as a bridge, translating Gemini's high-level instructions into a format that Claude can understand.

3.  **Claude Code**: The MCP server, in turn, invokes the `@anthropic-ai/claude-code` CLI tool. It passes the coding task, as defined by Gemini, to Claude. Claude then generates the necessary code to implement the task and returns it to the MCP server.

4.  **Final Output**: The MCP server sends the code generated by Claude back to the Gemini CLI, which then presents it to you as the final result.

This entire process is designed to be seamless. From your perspective, you are simply interacting with the Gemini CLI. However, in the background, this powerful, multi-model collaboration is taking place, allowing you to leverage the unique strengths of both Gemini and Claude.
